---
title: "Understanding Large Language models(LLMs)"

categories: LLM AI

---

"Machine Learning Models that use deep learning to perform Natural Language Processing(NLP) tasks"

# How the Large Language Model(LLM) works

Large Language Model Works using Deep Learning techniques and large amount of text data. The LLM models are typically
based on transformer architecture, like generative pre-trained transformer(gpt), which are exceptional at handling sequential data like text input. LLMs consists of multiple layers of Neural Networks, each with parameters that can be fine tuned during training, which are enhanced further by a numerous layer known as attention mechanism, which dials in on specific parts of the data sets.

During training, Large Language Models (LLMs) learn to predict the next word in a sentence by analyzing the context provided by the preceding words. This process assigns probability scores to word sequences that have been tokenized, meaning they are broken into smaller units of characters. These tokens are converted into embeddings, which are numerical representations that capture the context and relationships within the text.

To achieve high accuracy, LLMs are trained on massive datasets containing billions of text samples. Through zero-shot learning and self-supervised learning, they develop an understanding of grammar, semantics, and conceptual relationships. Once the training phase is complete, LLMs can generate coherent and contextually appropriate text by predicting subsequent words based on the input provided, leveraging patterns and knowledge acquired during training. This capability supports tasks such as natural language understanding (NLU) and content creation.

Model performance can be further enhanced using techniques like prompt engineering, fine-tuning, and prompt-tuning. Additionally, methods such as reinforcement learning with human feedback (RLHF) are employed to minimize biases, offensive language, and factual inaccuracies—often referred to as hallucinations—that may arise from training on unstructured data. Addressing these issues is critical for ensuring that enterprise-grade LLMs are reliable, meet ethical standards, and do not pose risks related to liability or reputational harm.